---
author: hannes
title: SASL
abstract: develop a simple authentication and security layer
tags: active project, help needed, protocol
---

[SASL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simple_Authentication_and_Security_Layer)
is used widely for authentication of users - we need it for MirageOS.  Its
purpose is to authenticate a user with their credentials (password, certificate,
..).  SASL is protocol-agnostic and used in a variety of Internet protocols
(POP3, IMAP, XMPP, SMTP, ...), always with a slightly different wire encodings.

SASL is also agnostic about its authentication mechanism, ranging from `MD5`
digests, `CRAM/SCRAM` hashing, `external` (used with X.509 client certificates
over a TLS connection).

The SASL library itself should be agnostic over the wire encoding and over the
mechanism, but implement a solid base of each.  At the moment there is the
[ocaml-gsasl](https://github.com/nojb/ocaml-gsasl/) library, which is an
interface to the GNU SASL library (written in C).  The
[erm-xmpp](https://github.com/ermine/xmpp) contains some ad-hoc SASL client code
([here](https://github.com/hannesm/xmpp/blob/otr/src/sasl.ml).

SASL nowadays also deals with Unicode in usernames and passwords by using the
[PRECIS](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8264) framework (earlier SASLprep etc.).
I started an implementation of the PRECIS framework in OCaml using the available
[Unicode libaries](http://erratique.ch/software/uucp), which will soon be
published.

The SASL library should be lightweight (effect-free, minimal dependencies)
developed purely in OCaml with a reasonably sized test suite, and fuzz-based
testing.  An initial prototype can be integrated into existing libaries that use
SASL.

If you're interested in starting this project, please drop a mail to
mirageos-devel@lists.xenproject.org or mail hannes directly.